Open source software communities have shown the power of open
collaboration building some of the worldâ€™s most important software
assets together. There are communities also looking to collaboratively
build datasets that can be shared and developed in a very similar
model to software. For example, machine learning and AI systems
require vast amounts of training data. Governments are looking for
ways to establish public-private sharing of data. The challenge is
that intellectual property systems around the world treat data
different than software. Our common OSI-approved licenses do not work
well applied to data.

Our communities wanted to develop data license agreements that could
enable sharing of data similar to what we have with open source
software. The result is a large scale collaboration on two licenses
for sharing data under a legal framework which we call the Community
Data License Agreement (CDLA).

There are two initial CDLA licenses. The CDLA-Sharing license was
designed to embody the principles of copyleft in a data license. In
general, if someone shares their data, the CDLA-Sharing agreement puts
terms in place to ensure that downstream recipients can use and modify
that data, and are also required to share their changes to the data.
The CDLA-Permissive agreement is similar to permissive open source
licenses in that the publisher of data allows anyone to use, modify
and do what they want with the data with no obligations to share any
of their changes or modifications.

These two licenses establish the framework for collaborative sharing
of data that we have seen proven to work in open source software
communities. The context document should be helpful for understanding
the framework to apply the CDLA. We encourage communities and
organizations seeking to share data to review the Community Data
License Agreements and see if they fit your needs and use cases.

Please visit https://cdla.io/ for additional details and resources.
